feat: add loops and sequences lectures (#61294)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/lecture-working-with-loops-and-sequences/6839e4d62ae09d1661e4cf9b.md

even_numbers = []

for num in range(21):
    if num % 2 == 0:
        even_numbers.append(num)

print(even_numbers)
```

This example creates a new empty list called `even_numbers` and loops through a sequence of numbers between `0` and `20`. Inside the loop, there's a condition that checks if the current number has a remainder of `0` when divided by `2`. This is used to determine if the number is even. If the condition is `True`, then the current `num` is appended at the end of the `even_numbers` list. Finally, we print the `even_numbers` list to the console.

While this code works, there is a more concise way to write this that uses list comprehension instead. List comprehension allows you to create a new list in a single line by combining a loop and condition directly within square brackets or by passing them to the `list()` function. This makes the code shorter and often easier to read.

Here is the refactored example from earlier using square brackets:

```py
even_numbers = [num for num in range(21) if num % 2 == 0]
print(even_numbers)
```

And here it is using the `list()` function:

```py
even_numbers = list(num for num in range(21) if num % 2 == 0)
print(even_numbers)

> ```

Reviewer: Technically this is a generator expression passed to the list constructor. I'm not sure if we want to keep this. If we remove it, there is a sentence to change in the previous paragraph (" or by passing them to the `list()` function").

In this refactored example, the `even_numbers` list is created using a single line of code. The list comprehension loops through numbers from `0` to `20`, and includes only those that are divisible by `2`. This approach is more compact and eliminates the need for a separate loop and conditional block.

Let's take a look at another example so we can better understand how list comprehension works:

```py
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
result = [(num, 'Even') if num % 2 == 0 else (num, 'Odd') for num in numbers]
print(result)
```

In this example, we have a list of numbers and want to create a new list of tuples indicating which numbers are even or odd. In the first part of the list comprehension, we use an `if` statement to check if the number is evenly divisible by `2`. If so, then the result is a tuple of that number followed by the word `Even`. Otherwise, the result is a tuple with the number followed by the word `Odd`.

Here is what the result looks like printed in the console:

```py
[(1, 'Odd'), (2, 'Even'), (3, 'Odd'), (4, 'Even'), (5, 'Odd')]
```

> Another useful function to use with list comprehension is `filter()`. Here is an example of creating a new list of just words longer than four characters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way to create a list starting from an existing iterable is the `filter()` function. Here is an example of creating a new list of just words longer than four characters:
```
